meanwhile the White House says there's a
framework agreement on the table for a
six-week ceasefire in Gaza Israel has
not turned it down well now the wait is
on for Hamas to agree talks are ongoing
here in Doha with parties hoping to have
a deal in place by Ramadan in around a
week's time well rosin Jordan joins us
live now from Washington DC uh rosin sir
talk us through what we've heard from us
officials
then us officials briefed the reporters
here in Washington earlier on Saturday
to say that uh they have a framework in
place for a six- week pause or ceasefire
in the war on Gaza according to these us
officials the Israeli government has
more or less signed off on the deal and
now everyone is waiting to hear from the
leadership of Hamas on whether it will
meet its uh obligations under the deal
namely to release a number of captives
held in Gaza who belong to one four
categories the elderly women the sick
and the injured now so far there has not
been any response from Hamas but us
officials said that uh they were
continuing negotiations not just in Doha
but with a Partners in the region in
order to try to make this framework
which they're now calling the first
phase or phase a to uh get to the next
step which would be one step closer to
an end to the the war in Gaza yeah Ros
and just a few days ago President Biden
seemed to be rowing back on the prospect
of an imminent deal but now it appears a
deal is back on the
table well that's because you saw a
renewed burst of diplomacy of highlevel
diplomacy after Thursday's incident in
Rafa in which Israeli troops fired on
civilians who were greeting a convoy
truck that was bringing humanitarian Aid
the Israelis claim that they felt
threatened by some in the group those on
the ground say that the Israelis simply
opened fire without justification there
are investigations underway but because
of that incident us officials were very
worried about having this negotiated uh
six- week ceasefire fall apart after
weeks of negotiations between Doha and
Paris and Cairo and so the renewed sense
of optimism if we can call it that is
because officials on Saturday here in
Washington believe that there is still
this commitment to try to get this um
the ceasefire in place before the start
of Ramadan and Ross just a final thought
to you we're hearing that Israeli War
cabinet minister Benny gance uh is due
to travel to Washington to hold talks uh
with vice president KLA Harris what more
do we know about
this well there are numerous uh news
reports here in Washington suggesting
not only that Mr Gat will be in
Washington for in the early part of the
coming week but that he is supposedly
going to meet with the vice president
kamla Harris as well as with the
National Security adviser Jake Sullivan
on Monday according to these reports the
two US officials are talking everything
Gaza with Benny Gant they're talking
about the need to increase dramatically
the amount of humanitarian Aid to the
Palestinian people living inside Gaza
efforts to try to engage in some sort of
prisoner swap undering that uh six week
ceasefire and trying to actually get to
a point where you can get one step
closer not just to ending this war but
to trying to set up the framework for
the eventual establishment of a separate
Palestinian State there is a lot there
and it is noteworthy that Benny gatz
reportedly is making this trip without
the uh support or permission of the
Prime Minister Benjamin net so it'll be
very interesting to see once all of
these reported meetings take place to
see what that impact is on the ongoing
efforts to set up this framework for a
six-week ceasefire all right Ros Jordan
live for us there in Washington DC Ros
thank
you Al jaz's ber of Smith is in rala in
the occupied West Bank and he has
further reaction to the prospect of a
deal this looks like the US is
increasing the pressure on Hamas to
agree the broad terms of this six week
ceasefire deal Hamas says it will
deliver its official answer in Cairo on
Sunday that's when mediators from the US
katar and Egypt are expected to meet
again according to Egyptian media and
where teams from Hamas and Israel are
expected to turn up it's by no means
clear that Hamas is going to accept this
deal deal though they have previously
insisted on a full permanent ceasefire
and the complete withdrawal of Israeli
troops from Gaza demands that Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
called delusional Netanyahu has said
he's not going to send anyone to Cairo
these are reports from Israeli media
until Hamas gives up a list of all the
hostages that are still alive and again
we heard earlier from Hamas that they
are not prepared to do this so both
sides on the face of it seem still to be
far apart Bernard Smith Al jazer rala in
the occupied West Bank